Philosophers  antiquity used the concept  force  the study  stationary and moving objects and simple machines, but thinkers such  Aristotle and Archimedes retained fundamental errors  understanding force.  part this was due   incomplete understanding  the sometimes non-obvious force  friction, and  consequently inadequate view  the nature  natural motion.  fundamental error was the belief that  force  required  maintain motion, even   constant velocity. Most  the previous misunderstandings about motion and force were eventually corrected  Galileo Galilei and Sir Isaac Newton. With his mathematical insight, Sir Isaac Newton formulated laws  motion that were not improved- for nearly three hundred years.  the early 20th century, Einstein developed  theory  relativity that correctly predicted the action  forces  objects with increasing momenta near the speed  light, and also provided insight into the forces produced  gravitation and inertia.

With modern insights into quantum mechanics and technology that can accelerate particles close  the speed  light, particle physics has devised  Standard Model  describe forces between particles smaller than atoms. The Standard Model predicts that exchanged particles called gauge bosons are the fundamental means  which forces are emitted and absorbed. Only four main interactions are known:  order  decreasing strength, they are: strong, electromagnetic, weak, and gravitational.:–: High-energy particle physics observations made during the 1970s and 1980s confirmed that the weak and electromagnetic forces are expressions   more fundamental electroweak interaction.

Aristotle provided  philosophical discussion  the concept   force   integral part  Aristotelian cosmology.  Aristotle' view, the terrestrial sphere contained four elements that come  rest  different "natural places" therein. Aristotle believed that motionless objects  Earth, those composed mostly  the elements earth and water,    their natural place  the ground and that they will stay that way  left alone.  distinguished between the innate tendency  objects  find their "natural place" (.., for heavy bodies  fall), which led  "natural motion", and unnatural  forced motion, which required continued application   force. This theory, based  the everyday experience  how objects move, such  the constant application   force needed  keep  cart moving, had conceptual trouble accounting for the behavior  projectiles, such  the flight  arrows. The place where the archer moves the projectile was  the start  the flight, and while the projectile sailed through the air,  discernible efficient cause acts  . Aristotle was aware  this problem and proposed that the air displaced through the projectile' path carries the projectile  its target. This explanation demands  continuum like air for change  place  general.

The shortcomings  Aristotelian physics would not  fully corrected until the 17th century work  Galileo Galilei, who was influenced  the late Medieval idea that objects  forced motion carried  innate force  impetus. Galileo constructed  experiment  which stones and cannonballs were both rolled down  incline  disprove the Aristotelian theory  motion early  the 17th century.  showed that the bodies were accelerated  gravity   extent that was independent  their mass and argued that objects retain their velocity unless acted    force, for example friction.

Newton' First Law  Motion states that objects continue  move   state  constant velocity unless acted upon   external net force  resultant force. This law   extension  Galileo' insight that constant velocity was associated with  lack  net force (see  more detailed description  this below). Newton proposed that every object with mass has  innate inertia that functions  the fundamental equilibrium "natural state"  place  the Aristotelian idea  the "natural state  rest". That , the first law contradicts the intuitive Aristotelian belief that  net force  required  keep  object moving with constant velocity.  making rest physically indistinguishable from non-zero constant velocity, Newton' First Law directly connects inertia with the concept  relative velocities. Specifically,  systems where objects are moving with different velocities,   impossible  determine which object  " motion" and which object  " rest".  other words,  phrase matters more technically, the laws  physics are the same  every inertial frame  reference, that ,  all frames related   Galilean transformation.

For instance, while traveling   moving vehicle   constant velocity, the laws  physics  not change from being  rest.  person can throw  ball straight   the air and catch    falls down without worrying about applying  force  the direction the vehicle  moving. This  true even though another person who  observing the moving vehicle pass  also observes the ball follow  curving parabolic path  the same direction  the motion  the vehicle.   the inertia  the ball associated with its constant velocity  the direction  the vehicle' motion that ensures the ball continues  move forward even    thrown  and falls back down. From the perspective  the person  the car, the vehicle and everything inside     rest:   the outside world that  moving with  constant speed  the opposite direction. Since there   experiment that can distinguish whether   the vehicle that   rest  the outside world that   rest, the two situations are considered   physically indistinguishable. Inertia therefore applies equally well  constant velocity motion   does  rest.

The concept  inertia can  further generalized  explain the tendency  objects  continue  many different forms  constant motion, even those that are not strictly constant velocity. The rotational inertia  planet Earth  what fixes the constancy  the length   day and the length   year. Albert Einstein extended the principle  inertia further when  explained that reference frames subject  constant acceleration, such  those free-falling toward  gravitating object, were physically equivalent  inertial reference frames. This  why, for example, astronauts experience weightlessness when  free-fall orbit around the Earth, and why Newton' Laws  Motion are more easily discernible  such environments.   astronaut places  object with mass  mid-air next  himself,  will remain stationary with respect  the astronaut due  its inertia. This  the same thing that would occur  the astronaut and the object were  intergalactic space with  net force  gravity acting  their shared reference frame. This principle  equivalence was one  the foundational underpinnings for the development  the general theory  relativity.

Newton' Second Law asserts the direct proportionality  acceleration  force and the inverse proportionality  acceleration  mass. Accelerations can  defined through kinematic measurements. However, while kinematics are well-described through reference frame analysis  advanced physics, there are still deep questions that remain   what  the proper definition  mass. General relativity offers  equivalence between space-time and mass, but lacking  coherent theory  quantum gravity,   unclear   how  whether this connection  relevant  microscales. With some justification, Newton' second law can  taken   quantitative definition  mass  writing the law   equality; the relative units  force and mass then are fixed.

Newton' Third Law   result  applying symmetry  situations where forces can  attributed  the presence  different objects. The third law means that all forces are interactions between different bodies,[Note ] and thus that there   such thing   unidirectional force   force that acts  only one body. Whenever  first body exerts  force    second body, the second body exerts  force −  the first body.  and − are equal  magnitude and opposite  direction. This law  sometimes referred   the action-reaction law, with  called the "action" and − the "reaction". The action and the reaction are simultaneous:

This means that   closed system  particles, there are  internal forces that are unbalanced. That , the action-reaction force shared between any two objects   closed system will not cause the center  mass  the system  accelerate. The constituent objects only accelerate with respect  each other, the system itself remains unaccelerated. Alternatively,   external force acts  the system, then the center  mass will experience  acceleration proportional  the magnitude  the external force divided  the mass  the system.:-

Since forces are perceived  pushes  pulls, this can provide  intuitive understanding for describing forces.  with other physical concepts (.. temperature), the intuitive understanding  forces  quantified using precise operational definitions that are consistent with direct observations and compared   standard measurement scale. Through experimentation,   determined that laboratory measurements  forces are fully consistent with the conceptual definition  force offered  Newtonian mechanics.

Forces act   particular direction and have sizes dependent upon how strong the push  pull . Because  these characteristics, forces are classified  "vector quantities". This means that forces follow  different set  mathematical rules than physical quantities that  not have direction (denoted scalar quantities). For example, when determining what happens when two forces act  the same object,   necessary  know both the magnitude and the direction  both forces  calculate the result.  both  these pieces  information are not known for each force, the situation  ambiguous. For example,  you know that two people are pulling  the same rope with known magnitudes  force but you  not know which direction either person  pulling,   impossible  determine what the acceleration  the rope will . The two people could  pulling against each other   tug  war  the two people could  pulling  the same direction.  this simple one-dimensional example, without knowing the direction  the forces   impossible  decide whether the net force  the result  adding the two force magnitudes  subtracting one from the other. Associating forces with vectors avoids such problems.

Historically, forces were first quantitatively investigated  conditions  static equilibrium where several forces canceled each other out. Such experiments demonstrate the crucial properties that forces are additive vector quantities: they have magnitude and direction. When two forces act   point particle, the resulting force, the resultant (also called the net force), can  determined  following the parallelogram rule  vector addition: the addition  two vectors represented  sides   parallelogram, gives  equivalent resultant vector that  equal  magnitude and direction  the transversal  the parallelogram. The magnitude  the resultant varies from the difference  the magnitudes  the two forces  their sum, depending  the angle between their lines  action. However,  the forces are acting   extended body, their respective lines  application must also  specified  order  account for their effects  the motion  the body.

 well  being added, forces can also  resolved into independent components  right angles  each other.  horizontal force pointing northeast can therefore  split into two forces, one pointing north, and one pointing east. Summing these component forces using vector addition yields the original force. Resolving force vectors into components   set  basis vectors  often  more mathematically clean way  describe forces than using magnitudes and directions. This  because, for orthogonal components, the components  the vector sum are uniquely determined  the scalar addition  the components  the individual vectors. Orthogonal components are independent  each other because forces acting  ninety degrees  each other have  effect  the magnitude  direction  the other. Choosing  set  orthogonal basis vectors  often done  considering what set  basis vectors will make the mathematics most convenient. Choosing  basis vector that   the same direction  one  the forces  desirable, since that force would then have only one non-zero component. Orthogonal force vectors can  three-dimensional with the third component being  right-angles  the other two.

Pushing against  object   frictional surface can result   situation where the object does not move because the applied force  opposed  static friction, generated between the object and the table surface. For  situation with  movement, the static friction force exactly balances the applied force resulting   acceleration. The static friction increases  decreases  response  the applied force    upper limit determined  the characteristics  the contact between the surface and the object.

 static equilibrium between two forces  the most usual way  measuring forces, using simple devices such  weighing scales and spring balances. For example,  object suspended   vertical spring scale experiences the force  gravity acting  the object balanced   force applied  the "spring reaction force", which equals the object' weight. Using such tools, some quantitative force laws were discovered: that the force  gravity  proportional  volume for objects  constant density (widely exploited for millennia  define standard weights); Archimedes' principle for buoyancy; Archimedes' analysis  the lever; Boyle' law for gas pressure; and Hooke' law for springs. These were all formulated and experimentally verified before Isaac Newton expounded his Three Laws  Motion.

Dynamic equilibrium was first described  Galileo who noticed that certain assumptions  Aristotelian physics were contradicted  observations and logic. Galileo realized that simple velocity addition demands that the concept   "absolute rest frame" did not exist. Galileo concluded that motion   constant velocity was completely equivalent  rest. This was contrary  Aristotle' notion   "natural state"  rest that objects with mass naturally approached. Simple experiments showed that Galileo' understanding  the equivalence  constant velocity and rest were correct. For example,   mariner dropped  cannonball from the crow' nest   ship moving   constant velocity, Aristotelian physics would have the cannonball fall straight down while the ship moved beneath . Thus,   Aristotelian universe, the falling cannonball would land behind the foot  the mast   moving ship. However, when this experiment  actually conducted, the cannonball always falls  the foot  the mast,   the cannonball knows  travel with the ship despite being separated from . Since there   forward horizontal force being applied  the cannonball   falls, the only conclusion left  that the cannonball continues  move with the same velocity  the boat   falls. Thus,  force  required  keep the cannonball moving  the constant forward velocity.

 simple case  dynamic equilibrium occurs  constant velocity motion across  surface with kinetic friction.  such  situation,  force  applied  the direction  motion while the kinetic friction force exactly opposes the applied force. This results  zero net force, but since the object started with  non-zero velocity,  continues  move with  non-zero velocity. Aristotle misinterpreted this motion  being caused  the applied force. However, when kinetic friction  taken into consideration   clear that there   net force causing constant velocity motion.

The notion "force" keeps its meaning  quantum mechanics, though one  now dealing with operators instead  classical variables and though the physics  now described  the Schrödinger equation instead  Newtonian equations. This has the consequence that the results   measurement are now sometimes "quantized", .. they appear  discrete portions. This ,  course, difficult  imagine  the context  "forces". However, the potentials (,,)  fields, from which the forces generally can  derived, are treated similar  classical position variables, .., .

However, already  quantum mechanics there  one "caveat", namely the particles acting onto each other  not only possess the spatial variable, but also  discrete intrinsic angular momentum-like variable called the "spin", and there  the Pauli principle relating the space and the spin variables. Depending  the value  the spin, identical particles split into two different classes, fermions and bosons.  two identical fermions (.. electrons) have  symmetric spin function (.. parallel spins) the spatial variables must  antisymmetric (.. they exclude each other from their places much   there was  repulsive force), and vice versa, .. for antiparallel spins the position variables must  symmetric (.. the apparent force must  attractive). Thus  the case  two fermions there   strictly negative correlation between spatial and spin variables, whereas for two bosons (.. quanta  electromagnetic waves, photons) the correlation  strictly positive.

 modern particle physics, forces and the acceleration  particles are explained   mathematical -product  exchange  momentum-carrying gauge bosons. With the development  quantum field theory and general relativity,  was realized that force   redundant concept arising from conservation  momentum (-momentum  relativity and momentum  virtual particles  quantum electrodynamics). The conservation  momentum can  directly derived from the homogeneity  symmetry  space and   usually considered more fundamental than the concept   force. Thus the currently known fundamental forces are considered more accurately   "fundamental interactions".:199–128 When particle  emits (creates)  absorbs (annihilates) virtual particle ,  momentum conservation results  recoil  particle  making impression  repulsion  attraction between particles  ' exchanging  . This description applies  all forces arising from fundamental interactions. While sophisticated mathematical descriptions are needed  predict,  full detail, the accurate result  such interactions, there   conceptually simple way  describe such interactions through the use  Feynman diagrams.   Feynman diagram, each matter particle  represented   straight line (see world line) traveling through time, which normally increases    the right  the diagram. Matter and anti-matter particles are identical except for their direction  propagation through the Feynman diagram. World lines  particles intersect  interaction vertices, and the Feynman diagram represents any force arising from  interaction  occurring  the vertex with  associated instantaneous change  the direction  the particle world lines. Gauge bosons are emitted away from the vertex  wavy lines and,  the case  virtual particle exchange, are absorbed   adjacent vertex.

All  the forces  the universe are based  four fundamental interactions. The strong and weak forces are nuclear forces that act only  very short distances, and are responsible for the interactions between subatomic particles, including nucleons and compound nuclei. The electromagnetic force acts between electric charges, and the gravitational force acts between masses. All other forces  nature derive from these four fundamental interactions. For example, friction   manifestation  the electromagnetic force acting between the atoms  two surfaces, and the Pauli exclusion principle, which does not permit atoms  pass through each other. Similarly, the forces  springs, modeled  Hooke' law, are the result  electromagnetic forces and the Exclusion Principle acting together  return  object  its equilibrium position. Centrifugal forces are acceleration forces that arise simply from the acceleration  rotating frames  reference.:-:359

The development  fundamental theories for forces proceeded along the lines  unification  disparate ideas. For example, Isaac Newton unified the force responsible for objects falling  the surface  the Earth with the force responsible for the orbits  celestial mechanics  his universal theory  gravitation. Michael Faraday and James Clerk Maxwell demonstrated that electric and magnetic forces were unified through one consistent theory  electromagnetism.  the 20th century, the development  quantum mechanics led   modern understanding that the first three fundamental forces (all except gravity) are manifestations  matter (fermions) interacting  exchanging virtual particles called gauge bosons. This standard model  particle physics posits  similarity between the forces and led scientists  predict the unification  the weak and electromagnetic forces  electroweak theory subsequently confirmed  observation. The complete formulation  the standard model predicts   yet unobserved Higgs mechanism, but observations such  neutrino oscillations indicate that the standard model  incomplete.  Grand Unified Theory allowing for the combination  the electroweak interaction with the strong force  held out   possibility with candidate theories such  supersymmetry proposed  accommodate some  the outstanding unsolved problems  physics. Physicists are still attempting  develop self-consistent unification models that would combine all four fundamental interactions into  theory  everything. Einstein tried and failed  this endeavor, but currently the most popular approach  answering this question  string theory.:212–219

What  now call gravity was not identified   universal force until the work  Isaac Newton. Before Newton, the tendency for objects  fall towards the Earth was not understood   related  the motions  celestial objects. Galileo was instrumental  describing the characteristics  falling objects  determining that the acceleration  every object  free-fall was constant and independent  the mass  the object. Today, this acceleration due  gravity towards the surface  the Earth  usually designated   and has  magnitude  about . meters per second squared (this measurement  taken from sea level and may vary depending  location), and points toward the center  the Earth. This observation means that the force  gravity   object  the Earth' surface  directly proportional  the object' mass. Thus  object that has  mass   will experience  force:

Newton came  realize that the effects  gravity might  observed  different ways  larger distances.  particular, Newton determined that the acceleration  the Moon around the Earth could  ascribed  the same force  gravity  the acceleration due  gravity decreased   inverse square law. Further, Newton realized that the acceleration due  gravity  proportional  the mass  the attracting body. Combining these ideas gives  formula that relates the mass () and the radius ()  the Earth  the gravitational acceleration:

 this equation,  dimensional constant   used  describe the relative strength  gravity. This constant has come   known  Newton' Universal Gravitation Constant, though its value was unknown  Newton' lifetime. Not until 1798 was Henry Cavendish able  make the first measurement   using  torsion balance; this was widely reported  the press   measurement  the mass  the Earth since knowing  could allow one  solve for the Earth' mass given the above equation. Newton, however, realized that since all celestial bodies followed the same laws  motion, his law  gravity had   universal. Succinctly stated, Newton' Law  Gravitation states that the force   spherical object  mass  due  the gravitational pull  mass  

 was only the orbit  the planet Mercury that Newton' Law  Gravitation seemed not  fully explain. Some astrophysicists predicted the existence  another planet (Vulcan) that would explain the discrepancies; however, despite some early indications,  such planet could  found. When Albert Einstein formulated his theory  general relativity ()  turned his attention  the problem  Mercury' orbit and found that his theory added  correction, which could account for the discrepancy. This was the first time that Newton' Theory  Gravity had been shown   less correct than  alternative.

Since then, and  far, general relativity has been acknowledged  the theory that best explains gravity.  , gravitation  not viewed   force, but rather, objects moving freely  gravitational fields travel under their own inertia  straight lines through curved space-time – defined  the shortest space-time path between two space-time events. From the perspective  the object, all motion occurs   there were  gravitation whatsoever.   only when observing the motion   global sense that the curvature  space-time can  observed and the force  inferred from the object' curved path. Thus, the straight line path  space-time  seen   curved line  space, and   called the ballistic trajectory  the object. For example,  basketball thrown from the ground moves   parabola,      uniform gravitational field. Its space-time trajectory (when the extra  dimension  added)  almost  straight line, slightly curved (with the radius  curvature  the order  few light-years). The time derivative  the changing momentum  the object  what  label  "gravitational force".

Through combining the definition  electric current  the time rate  change  electric charge,  rule  vector multiplication called Lorentz' Law describes the force   charge moving   magnetic field. The connection between electricity and magnetism allows for the description   unified electromagnetic force that acts   charge. This force can  written   sum  the electrostatic force (due  the electric field) and the magnetic force (due  the magnetic field). Fully stated, this  the law:

The origin  electric and magnetic fields would not  fully explained until 1864 when James Clerk Maxwell unified  number  earlier theories into  set   scalar equations, which were later reformulated into  vector equations  Oliver Heaviside and Josiah Willard Gibbs. These "Maxwell Equations" fully described the sources  the fields  being stationary and moving charges, and the interactions  the fields themselves. This led Maxwell  discover that electric and magnetic fields could  "self-generating" through  wave that traveled   speed that  calculated   the speed  light. This insight united the nascent fields  electromagnetic theory with optics and led directly   complete description  the electromagnetic spectrum.

However, attempting  reconcile electromagnetic theory with two observations, the photoelectric effect, and the nonexistence  the ultraviolet catastrophe, proved troublesome. Through the work  leading theoretical physicists,  new theory  electromagnetism was developed using quantum mechanics. This final modification  electromagnetic theory ultimately led  quantum electrodynamics ( QED), which fully describes all electromagnetic phenomena  being mediated  wave–particles known  photons.  QED, photons are the fundamental exchange particle, which described all interactions relating  electromagnetism including the electromagnetic force.[Note ]

   common misconception  ascribe the stiffness and rigidity  solid matter  the repulsion  like charges under the influence  the electromagnetic force. However, these characteristics actually result from the Pauli exclusion principle.[citation needed] Since electrons are fermions, they cannot occupy the same quantum mechanical state  other electrons. When the electrons   material are densely packed together, there are not enough lower energy quantum mechanical states for them all,  some  them must   higher energy states. This means that  takes energy  pack them together. While this effect  manifested macroscopically   structural force,   technically only the result  the existence   finite set  electron states.

The strong force only acts directly upon elementary particles. However,  residual  the force  observed between hadrons (the best known example being the force that acts between nucleons  atomic nuclei)  the nuclear force. Here the strong force acts indirectly, transmitted  gluons, which form part  the virtual  and rho mesons, which classically transmit the nuclear force (see this topic for more). The failure  many searches for free quarks has shown that the elementary particles affected are not directly observable. This phenomenon  called color confinement.

The weak force  due  the exchange  the heavy  and  bosons. Its most familiar effect  beta decay ( neutrons  atomic nuclei) and the associated radioactivity. The word "weak" derives from the fact that the field strength  some 1013 times less than that  the strong force. Still,   stronger than gravity over short distances.  consistent electroweak theory has also been developed, which shows that electromagnetic forces and the weak force are indistinguishable   temperatures  excess  approximately 1015 kelvins. Such temperatures have been probed  modern particle accelerators and show the conditions  the universe  the early moments  the Big Bang.

The normal force  due  repulsive forces  interaction between atoms  close contact. When their electron clouds overlap, Pauli repulsion (due  fermionic nature  electrons) follows resulting  the force that acts   direction normal  the surface interface between two objects.: The normal force, for example,  responsible for the structural integrity  tables and floors  well  being the force that responds whenever  external force pushes   solid object.  example  the normal force  action  the impact force   object crashing into  immobile surface.

Tension forces can  modeled using ideal strings that are massless, frictionless, unbreakable, and unstretchable. They can  combined with ideal pulleys, which allow ideal strings  switch physical direction. Ideal strings transmit tension forces instantaneously  action-reaction pairs  that  two objects are connected   ideal string, any force directed along the string  the first object  accompanied   force directed along the string  the opposite direction  the second object.  connecting the same string multiple times  the same object through the use   set- that uses movable pulleys, the tension force   load can  multiplied. For every string that acts   load, another factor  the tension force  the string acts  the load. However, even though such machines allow for  increase  force, there   corresponding increase  the length  string that must  displaced  order  move the load. These tandem effects result ultimately  the conservation  mechanical energy since the work done  the load  the same  matter how complicated the machine.

Newton' laws and Newtonian mechanics  general were first developed  describe how forces affect idealized point particles rather than three-dimensional objects. However,  real life, matter has extended structure and forces that act  one part   object might affect other parts   object. For situations where lattice holding together the atoms   object  able  flow, contract, expand,  otherwise change shape, the theories  continuum mechanics describe the way forces affect the material. For example,  extended fluids, differences  pressure result  forces being directed along the pressure gradients  follows:

where   the relevant cross-sectional area for the volume for which the stress-tensor  being calculated. This formalism includes pressure terms associated with forces that act normal  the cross-sectional area (the matrix diagonals  the tensor)  well  shear terms associated with forces that act parallel  the cross-sectional area (the off-diagonal elements). The stress tensor accounts for forces that cause all strains (deformations) including also tensile stresses and compressions.:133–134:-–-

Torque  the rotation equivalent  force  the same way that angle  the rotational equivalent for position, angular velocity for velocity, and angular momentum for momentum.   consequence  Newton' First Law  Motion, there exists rotational inertia that ensures that all bodies maintain their angular momentum unless acted upon   unbalanced torque. Likewise, Newton' Second Law  Motion can  used  derive  analogous equation for the instantaneous angular acceleration  the rigid body:

where   the mass  the object,   the velocity  the object and   the distance  the center  the circular path and   the unit vector pointing  the radial direction outwards from the center. This means that the unbalanced centripetal force felt  any object  always directed toward the center  the curving path. Such forces act perpendicular  the velocity vector associated with the motion   object, and therefore  not change the speed  the object (magnitude  the velocity), but only the direction  the velocity vector. The unbalanced force that accelerates  object can  resolved into  component that  perpendicular  the path, and one that  tangential  the path. This yields both the tangential force, which accelerates the object  either slowing  down  speeding  , and the radial (centripetal) force, which changes its direction.

 conservative force that acts   closed system has  associated mechanical work that allows energy  convert only between kinetic  potential forms. This means that for  closed system, the net mechanical energy  conserved whenever  conservative force acts  the system. The force, therefore,  related directly  the difference  potential energy between two different locations  space, and can  considered    artifact  the potential field  the same way that the direction and amount   flow  water can  considered    artifact  the contour map  the elevation   area.

For certain physical scenarios,   impossible  model forces  being due  gradient  potentials. This  often due  macrophysical considerations that yield forces  arising from  macroscopic statistical average  microstates. For example, friction  caused  the gradients  numerous electrostatic potentials between the atoms, but manifests   force model that  independent  any macroscale position vector. Nonconservative forces other than friction include other contact forces, tension, compression, and drag. However, for any sufficiently detailed description, all these forces are the results  conservative ones since each  these macroscopic forces are the net results  the gradients  microscopic potentials.

The connection between macroscopic nonconservative forces and microscopic conservative forces  described  detailed treatment with statistical mechanics.  macroscopic closed systems, nonconservative forces act  change the internal energies  the system, and are often associated with the transfer  heat. According  the Second law  thermodynamics, nonconservative forces necessarily result  energy transformations within closed systems from ordered  more random conditions  entropy increases.

The pound-force has  metric counterpart, less commonly used than the newton: the kilogram-force (kgf) (sometimes kilopond),  the force exerted  standard gravity  one kilogram  mass. The kilogram-force leads   alternate, but rarely used unit  mass: the metric slug (sometimes mug  hyl)  that mass that accelerates   ·− when subjected   force   kgf. The kilogram-force  not  part  the modern  system, and  generally deprecated; however  still sees use for some purposes  expressing aircraft weight, jet thrust, bicycle spoke tension, torque wrench settings and engine output torque. Other arcane units  force include the sthè, which  equivalent  1000 , and the kip, which  equivalent  1000 lbf.

