What concept did philosophers  antiquity use  study simple machines?
What was the belief that maintaining motion required force?
Who had mathmatical insite?
How long did  take  improve  Sir Isaac Newton' laws  motion?
Who develped the theory  relativity?
What has partical physics made  describe sub-atomic forces?
What are the exchanged particles predicted  the standard Model?
What  the strongest main interaction?
What  the weakest main interaction?
What are weak and electromatic forces expressions ?
Who provided  philosophical discussion  force?
What was the concept  force  integral part ?
How many elements did Aristotle believe the terrestrial sphere   made  ?
Where did Aristotle believe the natural place for earth and water elements?
What did Aristotle refer  forced motion ?
When were the shortcomings  Aristotle' physics overcome?
Whose work  corrected Aristotle' physics  the seventeenth century?
What did objects  forced motion contain according  the late Medieval idea that influence Aristotle?
Who experimented  rolling stones and canonballs down  steep incline?
What force acted  bodies  retard their velocity?
Whose First Law  Motion says that unless acted upon  forces, objects would continue  move   constant velocity?
What insight  Galileo was associated with constant velocity?
Who proposed that innate intertial  the natural state  objects?
What law connects relative velocities with inertia?
What are the laws  physics  Galileo,  reference  objest  motion and rest?
What doesn' change from being  rest  movement   constant velocity?
What path does  ball thrown  and down   moving vehicle take when seen   outside observer? 
What sate are things inside   moving vehicle  seen    person inside the vehicle?
What applies  equally  constant velocity motion   does  rest.
What concept explains why objects continue  constant motion?
What makes day length constant  Earth?
Who explained that inertial reference frames equaled reference frames subject  constant acceleration?
What  astronaughts experience while  free-fall?
What was the basis mentioned for the develpment  the general theory  relativity?
What describes the proportionality  acceleration  force and mass?
What kind  measurements define accelerlations?
What has  equivalence between mass and space-time?
What  missing  theory  quantum gravity?
 Newton' second law, what are the units  mass and force  relation  microscales?
When forces are from the presence  differnet objects, what law gives symmetry?
What law staes that forces are interactions between bodies?
What kind  force does not exist under Newton' third law?
What  the equality  forces between two objects exerting force  each other??
What experiences acceleration when external force  applied   system?
 what kind  system  particles are there  unbalanced iinternal forces?
What  the magnitude  force divided  when external force  added?
What does pushing and pulling perceptions provide for describing forces?
What  used  quantify the intuitive undestanding  forces?
What offers  conceptual definition  force?
How are laboratory measurements  forces determined?
How are forces classified with regard  push and pull strengt?
What physical quantities  not have direction?
How  you avoid problems when determining forces involved   object from two  more sources?
 you  not know both magnitude and direction  two forces   object, what would you call that situation?
How  you determine the acceleration   rope when two people are pulling ?
 what conditions were forces first measured historically?
What  forces have with regard  additive quantities?
What  the resultant force called when two forces act   particle?
When forces are acting   extended body, what  you need  account for motion effects?
What geometric shape  used  equations  determine net force?
Whwn forces are  right ngles  each other what can they  broken down ?
  force  pointing horizontally  the northeast, how many forces can you split the force into?
What  you get when you figure the sum  forces with vector addition?
What are the independant components   vector sum that has been determined  scalar addition  individual vectors?
What can orthogonal forces  when there are three components with two  right angles  each other?
What can keep  object from moving when   being pushed   surface?
What  generated between  surface and  object that  being pushed?
Static friction balances what force when there   movement   object   surface?
What makes static friction    down  responce  contact characteristics between  object and the surface   ?
What can scales and spring balances measure between two forces  using static equilibrium?
What force acts   object suspended   spring scale  addition  gravity?
What equals the spring reaction force   object suspended   spring reaction scale? 
Objects  constant density are proportional  volume  what force  define standard weights?.
Who expounded the Three Laws  Motion?
Who first described dynamic equilibrium?
What does motion   constant velocity equal?
Who had the idea   natural state for objects  rest?
Where will  canonball dropped from the crow' nest   ship land according  Aristotle?
Where does  canonball dropped from the crow' nest   ship actually land?
What occurs when traveling across  surface   constant velocity with regard  friction?
What directly opposes the force applied  move  object across  surface?
What has  accounted for that causes  net force being the cause  constant velocity motion?
Who thought that applied force caused movement   object regardless  non-zero velocity?
What equation currently decribes the physics  force.
What equation desribed the physics  force before the current Schrodinger equation?
How are the forces derived from fields treated similarly ?
What type  measurements result under Schrodinger equations when using operators instead  Newtonian variables?
What notion keeps ' meaning through both Netonian and Schrodinger physics equations?
What  the intrisic angular variable called when particles act upon one another?
What  the principle about relating spin and space variables?
What value does the seperating into fermions and bosons depend?
 the apparant force  two fermions  attractive, what  the spin function?
 the apparant force  two fermions  repulsive, what  the spin function?
How are the particle forces and accelerations explained   gauge bosons exchange?
What  the redundant concept coming from momentum conservation?
What  more fundamental than force  quanton field theory?
What diagrams are used  simplify particle interactions   fundamental level?
Matter particles are shown  what kind  lines   Feynman diagram?
How many interactions are all  the universal forces based ?
What nuclear forces only act  short distances?
What force acts between electric charges?
What  gravitational forces act between?
What prohibits atoms from passing through each other?
Who formed the universal theory  gravitation?
 what century was quantum mechanics made? 
What kind  self-consistent models are physicists trying  make that would create  theory  everything?
What type  physics model did Einstein fail  make?
Who identified gravity   force?
Who came  with the concept that falling objects fell  the same speed regardless  weight?
How fast  objects fall  Earth?
Where was the measurment for the standard gravity  Earth taken?
What   object' mass proportional   the surface  the Earth?
How might gravity effects  observed differently according  Newton?
What could  attributed  gravity acceleration around the Earth?
What  gravitational acceleration proportional ?
What  included along with gravitational acceration, and mass  the Earth   formula about rotation about the Earth?
What  used  figure the relative strengh  gravity?
Who made the first  measure value  the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant?
When was the first measurement  the value  the Newton Universal Gravitation Constant?
Who figured out that his law  gravity had   universal?
What planet seemed  buck Newton' gravitational laws?
What planet did astrophysisist predict  explain the problems with Mercury?
What theory accounted for the Mercury problem?
Who came  with the theory  relativity?
Who first showed that Newton' Theory  Gravity was not  correct  another theory?
What theory best explains gravity?
What space-time path  seen   curved line  space?
What  the derivative   object' changing momentum called?
 what sense must you  observing the curvature  space-time?
What   the time rate  change  electric charge?
What magnetic and electric force acts   charge?
What  the law named that defines  charge moving through  magnetic field?
Whatare the electrostatic and magnetic force awritten  the sum ?
Who first fully explained the origins  magnetic and electric fields?
When did the origins  magnetic and electric fields occur?
How many scalar equations were formed into  set  James Maxwell?
How many vector equations did Heaviside and Gibbs reformilate Maxwell'  scalar equtions into?
Who discovered that magnetic and electric could self-generate?
What was dificult  reconcile the photoelectric effect and the missing ultraviolet catastrophe?
What was used  create  new electromagnetic theory  reconcile the troubles with electromagnetic theory   used  stand?
What did electromagnetic theory  finally lead ?
What are the wave-particles called that mediate all electromagnetic phenomena?
What  QED short for?
What  often misunderstood  the cause  matter rigidity?
What actually causes rigidity  matter?
What  needed  pack electrons densely together?
How  the Pauli exclusion priciple manifested  the macro world?
What  often misunderstood  the cause  matter rigidity?
What actually causes rigidity  matter?
What  needed  pack electrons densely together?
How  the Pauli exclusion priciple manifested  the macro world?
What does stong force act upon?
What can  seen between hadrons?
What  the force between nucleons?
How are nuclear forces transmitted?
What  the term for the lack  obsevable free quarks?
What does the  and  boson exchange create?
What  the observable effect   and  boson exchange?
What  the effect  beta decay?
How many times less  the strenght  the weak field compared  the strong?
 what temperature  weak and electromagnetic forces appear the same?
What  the repulsive force  close range atom interaction?
What occurs when electron clouds overlap from different atoms?
What causes Pauli repulsion?
What  the force that causes rigid strength  structures?
What can  used  model tension forces?
What  you use  let idea strings switch direction?
 what way  idea strings transmit tesion forces?
What  the final effect  adding more and more idea strings   load?
What can increase the tension force   load?
What did Newton' mechanics affect?
What didn' Newton' mechanics affext?
 what kind  fluid are pressure differences caused  direction  forces over gradients?
What may  force  one part   object affect?
What does matter actually have that Newtonian mechanics doesn' address?
What causes strain  structures?
What  used  calculate cross section area  the volume   object?
What are associated with normal forces?
What includes pressure terms when calculating area  volume?
What  the force equivalent  torque compared  angular momentum?
What would change the rotational inertia   body under Newton' First Law  Motion?
 calculate instant angular acceleration   rigid body what would you use?
Where does centripetal force ?
How  centripetal forces act  relation  vectors  velocity?
What force changes  objects direction  travel?
What  another word for centripetal force?
What  resposible for speeding   slowing down  object?
What  the only form potential energy can change into?
What  the only form kinetic energy can change into?
What  preserved   closed system  forces when acted upon?
What  the force between two locations related ?
What  the force called rgarding  potential field between two locations?
What  sometimes impossible  model?
Why are some forces due  that are impossible  model?
What  electrostatic gradiient potentials create?
Tension, compression, and drag are what kind  forces?
 what treatment are nonconservative and conservative forces described?
What changes macroscopic closed system energies?
What  the exchange  heat associated with?
What  the law  thermodynamics associated with closed system heat exchange?
What makes energy changes   closed system?
What  the metric term less used than the Newton?
What  the kilogram-force sometimes reffered  ?
What   very seldom used unit  mass  the metric system?
What seldom used term   unit  force equal  1000 pound   force?
What  the seldom used force unit equal  one thousand newtons?
